K8s Orion release branch (#2334)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/kubernetes/re-clusters/multi-namespace.md

## Update Redis Enterprise operator ConfigMap

> There are two methods of updating the operator ConfigMap (`operator-environment-config`) to specify which namespaces to manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify which namespaces to manage, update the operator ConfigMap (`operator-environment-config`) using one of these methods.
```

- Method 1: Configure the operator to watch for a namespace label and add this label to managed namespaces.
- Method 2: Configure the operator with an explicit list of namespaces to manage.

> This ConfigMap can be created manually before deploying the RedisEnterpriseCluster, or will be created automatically when a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create this ConfigMap manually before deploying the RedisEnterpriseCluster, or it will be created automatically when a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) is deployed.
```

{{<note>}}

> If the REC is configured to watch a namespace without setting the role and role binding permissions, or a namespace that's not created yet, the operator will fail and halt normal operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the REC is configured to watch a namespace without setting the role and role binding permissions, or a namespace that is not yet created, the operator will fail and halt normal operations.
```

{{</note>}}

### Method 1: Namespace label (recommended)

1. Create the `cluster_role_binding.yaml` and `cluster_role.yaml` files. Replace the `<rec-namespace>` with the namespace the Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) resides in.

  `cluster_role.yaml` example:

  ```yaml
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    kind: ClusterRole
    metadata:
      name: redis-enterprise-operator
    rules:
      - apiGroups: [""]
        resources: ["namespaces"]
        verbs: ["list", "watch"]
  ```

  `cluster_role_binding.yaml` example:

  ```yaml
    kind: ClusterRoleBinding
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      name: redis-enterprise-operator
    subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      name: redis-enterprise-operator
      namespace: <rec-namespace>
    roleRef:
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: redis-enterprise-operator
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  ```

> 2. Apply the files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Apply the files.
```

  ```sh
  kubectl apply -f cluster_role.yaml
  kubectl apply -f cluster_role_binding.yaml 
  ```

> 3. Patch the ConfigMap in the REC namespace (`<rec-namespace>`) to identify the managed namespaces with your desired label (`<label-name>`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Patch the ConfigMap in the REC namespace (`<rec-namespace>`) to identify the managed namespaces with your label (`<label-name>`).
```

  ```sh
   kubectl patch ConfigMap/operator-environment-config \
  -n <rec-namespace> \
  --type merge \
  -p '{"data": {"REDB_NAMESPACES_LABEL": "<label-name>"}}'
  ```

> 4. For each managed namespace, apply the same label. Replace `<managed-namespace>` with the namespace the REC will manage. Replace `<label-name>` with the value used in the previous step. If you specify a value for `<label-value>`, both the label name and value in managed namespaces must match to be detected by the operator. If the `<label-value>` is empty, only the label name needs to match on manged namespaces and the value is disregarded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. For each managed namespace, apply the same label. Replace `<managed-namespace>` with the namespace the REC will manage. Replace `<label-name>` with the value used in the previous step. If you specify a value for `<label-value>`, both the label name and value in managed namespaces must match to be detected by the operator. If the `<label-value>` is empty, only the label name needs to match on managed namespaces and the value is disregarded.
```

> 4. For each managed namespace, apply the same label. Replace `<managed-namespace>` with the namespace the REC will manage. Replace `<label-name>` with the value used in the previous step. If you specify a value for `<label-value>`, both the label name and value in managed namespaces must match to be detected by the operator. If the `<label-value>` is empty, only the label name needs to match on manged namespaces and the value is disregarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. For each managed namespace, apply the same label. Replace `<managed-namespace>` with the namespace the REC will manage. Replace `<label-name>` with the value used in the previous step. If you specify a value for `<label-value>`, both the label name and value in managed namespaces must match to be detected by the operator. If the `<label-value>` is empty, only the label name needs to match on managed namespaces and the value is disregarded.
```

  ```sh
  kubectl label namespace <managed-namespace> <label-name>=<label-value>
  ```

{{<note>}}

> The operator restarts when it detects a namespace label has been added or removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator restarts when it detects a namespace label was added or removed.
```
